# Palette Generated By ColorMind

-   Generates 5 Colors
-   1st Color is the Light Shade, Use as main background color for dark on light design
-   2nd Color is the Light "Accent", Use to bring attention to design elements, not all have to be used.
-   3rd Color is the Main Brand Color
-   4th Color is Dark "Accent", Use to bring attention to design elements, not all have to be used.
-   5th Color is the Dark Shade, Use as text color for dark on light design
-   Going with by the colors:
    -   Light Shade falls under the 60% Category of the 60/30/10 rules
    -   Brand Color should fall under the 30% Category of the 60/30/10 rules
    -   Light Accent falls under the 10% Category of the 60/30/10 rules
    -   Dark Accent falls under the 10% Category of the 60/30/10 rules
    -   Dark Shade used as text could be excluded from the category, or can be

# UI/UX Design Rules

### 60/30/10 Rule

-   60/30/10 Visual Balance Rules for Main Colors

-   Does not to be followed strictly but as guideline

-   60% of site should be a dominant color(s)

    -   Background colors

-   30% of site should be a secondary color(s)

    -   Navigation Bar
    -   Key Sections
    -   Headers or Subheaders

-   10% of site should be a accent color(s)
    -   Call to actions items
    -   Critical Buttons
    -   Critical Sections
    -   Logos
-   Text colors can be excluded from the rule or fall under 30% Category depending on how much it occupy the layout
-   Each % sections can have more than one colors, but they divvied up evenly.
-   Limit to only 2-4 main colors that falls within the 60/30/10 rules, less is better. This excludes variants, extensions, and semantic/utility colors.

-   Brand Color can fall in any cateogry, but it depends on user preferences. Usually its used as secondary or accent colors.

### Variant and Extensions

-   Dominant and Secondary Colors can have variants or extension, consider either the Material Design or Atlassian color system

-   Brand color might need variant depending on the light or dark mode too.

-   Two version of our accent colors can be provided to make sure it looks good in both light and dark mode.

-   Semantic/utility colors outside color palette can be used to notify success, error, warning, disabled, etc.

## Understanding Colors

-   Color is composed of Hue, Tint, Tone

-   Hue - Dominant color family of the specific color. White, Black, and Gray are never referred as a hue.

-   Tint - Hue with only white added (or moving towards white). Lightens color but does not make brighter.

-   Tone - HUE WITH only gray added (or moving towards gray).

    -   Gray is considered truly neutral and has no pigment other than white and black.

    -   Gray will tone down the intensity of any colors

-   Shade - Hue with only black added (or moving towards white). Lightens color but does not make brighter.

## Colors Harmonies

-   Monochromatic - Uses one hue, with different saturation and brightness.

-   Analogous - Use hues that are next to each other on the wheel.

-   Complementary - Use hues that are on opposite of the color wheels.

-   Play with saturation and brightness to create more refine palette.

## Colors Tones Categories

-   Jewel Tones

    -   Rich saturated hues
    -   Saturation: 73-83
    -   Brightness: 56-76

-   Pastel Tones

    -   Soft, light, soothing
    -   Saturation: 14-21
    -   Brightness: 89-96

-   Earth Tones

    -   Natural Colors found in nature
    -   Muted and flat
    -   Created by combining pure Hue with White, Black, or Gray
    -   Saturation: 36-41
    -   Brightness: 36-77

-   Neutral

    -   Desaturated Color Categories
    -   Saturation: 1-10
    -   Brightness: 70-99

-   Fluorescent Tones

    -   Vibrant and Bright
    -   Saturation: 63-100
    -   Brightness: 82-100

-   Shade

    -   White, Black, and all grays
    -   Saturation: 0
    -   Brightness: 0-100

-   Combining Categories

    -   Pastel + Earth
    -   Jewel + Pastel
    -   Pastel + Shade
    -   Neutral + Earth
    -   Flourescent + Shade

-   Brand color (Typical)
    -   80% to 90% in saturation
    -   80% to 90% in brightness
    -   Avoid Hues between 40 - 120 degrees
